---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Semantic UI
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-02-20
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Semantic UI
---

## Introduction to HTML
  For this segment of ICS 314, we are given the task of being able to create websites using both raw HTML and Semantic UI. This has been a rough section as HTML is a different type animal that likes to play by its own rules. Main thing I noticed, this language likes to use A LOT of nested statements. You will have items within items, WITHIN items. It can be really annoying to keep track of at times! There have been many cases where I would have unecessary starting and ending dividers everywhere. However, just like most coding languages, with enough organization, being able to keep a clean code is very managable! I can see why people would debate about wether HTML should be considered as a coding lanuguage since it is mainly about formating and style editing, but I can not deny that learning it is just as difficult, if not, more difficult compared to most coding languages. 

## Impressions on Semantic UI
  I am not sure if my opinion will be in line with most people, but I personally think that Semantic UI makes web development a lot easier compared to raw HTML. One main thing to note for Semantic UI is that the classes used within it are very straight forward. About most of the classes have names that are very direct. For example, there are "center image", "topmenu", etc, and what these functions do are based upon their names. This makes looking for whatever you need on your web page very easy when browsing through the Semantic UI web page. Not only that, using these classes is kind of a shortcut towards a lot of things for raw HTML. Some of these function get a lot of things done in one class call where you have to do a couple lines of style coding in raw HTML. But, you generally need both to be able to make a spiffy looking website. Going through the Semantic UI library can be a bit troublesome sometimes due to how huge it is, but you eventually start getting into a rhythm about what you need to use given a scenario, and how it implement them properly. I may still have a bit of trouble when coding properly, but this also due to HTML language as well.
  
## Final Thoughts
  Web development in general is not really my cup of tea, but with the Semantic UI library, I had somewhat of an enjoyable time with it. It was kind of cool being able to see my creations taking shape the more geatures I added on the code. Being able to see the web pages final form was very satisfying, and I always felt like there could be more added to it so it could be as clean as possible. Hopefully the skills I gained from this experience will be transfered over when I get to create actual software, which I am really looking forward to. I am curios to see how I will progress through out the remainder of this class.
