---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Semantics for U & I
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-10-10
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Semantic UI
  - HTML
  - CSS
---

## Introduction ##
  Semantic UI is a user interface designing framework where your are given a wide variety of tools for you HTML programming purposes. There are many things possible you can do with Semantic UI such as creating menus, grids, etc. Although you could already do this with raw HTML, Semantic UI goes through all the dirty work for you by providing you a library for you to use. There are many classes within the library that allows you to build web pages within minutes!
  
## Impressions ##
  Semantic UI is quite an interesting programming format. Although I am not really a fan of using HTML in general, Semantic UI makes me view things in a more positive view. I actually enjoyed the use of Semantic UI because it felt as if it was a more simplified and more intuitive way for web desigining. You still have to deal with the hassle of making several dividers and making sure each item is in the correct class, but the many preset classes within Semantic UI allows you to breeze over some of the nuisances when working with raw HTML. For example, there are several classes within Semantic UI to where it formats portions of the web page for you to easily design. This can be quite a time saver rather than having to create your own menu interface.

## Conclusion ##
  Semantic UI was quite the treat to work with. It still had some of the nuisances that raw HTML had, but it at least it makes going through all the little things a lot less painless (even though there are some problems you will still stumble upon). I hope to see how far (if it at all) we can take Semantic UI and HTML within this course.
