---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Using Javascript is Less Annoying to Use Compared to Javascript and My Impressions On ICS 314's Learning Format
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-01-16
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

## Initial Experience 
  For ICS 314, one of the required programming languages to learn is Javascript, and oh boy does it have its benefits. There were many things that took some getting used to, mainly new syntax, but the main thing that sticked out to me when learning the language was knowing that Javascript is a weakly typed laguage. This means that when typing your code, you are not required to give variables specific data types. In Javascript, you can label all your variables using the same keyword and put any type of data within those variables. How you compare these variables can also depend on how specific you want the comparison to be. For example, within the language, you could use "==". With "==", the value 3 can be equated to its int, string, and other type variants. However, if you use "===", that value now has to be type specific.

## Thoughts and Impressions
  I personally find this change as a huge benefit for me as it saves me the hassle of having to do constant data type conversions for programs. The amount of times I have had assignments fail because of it is absurd! However, because variables are no longer specified towards one data type, organization can sometimes be a problem if you are not careful enough. This even includes arrays, as they no longer have to be typed using "[]". This should not be too much of a problem though, as it is in within good coding ethics that we use meaningful names to identify our variables to avoid any confusions. 

## ICS 314's Learning Format
  For ICS 314's atheltic learning format, I think this is one of the best to be able to teach the class. Programming is one of those skills you need to develop through constant practice. Being able to solve problems step by step and creating algorithms, all within a timely manner, it is not quite an easy task most of the times. There will definitely be some problems along the way where you really need to scratch your head and give it some time for you to develop new ideas. This learning format is to make sure that it does not happen so often when we are working in the field.
  
## Generic Ending Statement
  I hope I am able to learn as much as I can throughout the semester!
