---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Keeping Code Spick & Span!
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2019-02-06
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
---

## Good Coding Standards
  Good coding standards are essential when it comes to a software devloping environment. In most cases, software engineers will be working in teams, and being able to understand one another's code is one of the key aspects to success. Having your team members spending time interpreting your code is precious time wasted on getting work done. However, I do believe that coding standards should never be a hinderance towards programmers. Coding standards should not be chore where you constantly have to format your code properly. They should be easy to follow and take little effort to implement.
  
## Thoughts on ESLint
  I do not have that much of a problem with ESLint. If anything, most of my gripes with ESLint came from actually installing it. Setting up ESLint was probably one the most irritating experiences I had to deal with. The constant errors I got with ESLint because some path files were incorrect really wanted me to tear my hair out. The fact that it does not automatically implement itself with each project also makes it a nuisance. But other than that, I think it is all right. It keeps my work in an organized manner while not being too much of hassle to fix "bad" coding.
  
## Constant Change in Coding Standards
  I understand the idea of having good coding standards, but I can find it a huge hassle when the coding standards for each workplace differs from one another. This idea of having to constantly adjust your style of coding can be a major problem as the incosistent styles in coding can make it hard to keep comfortabley code. From experience, I was very comfortable with my former college's coding style as it kept everything neat and easy to read from the start. When I transfered to UH, I absolutely hated the new coding style. Everything was so compact and hard to keep track of. It was honestly an eye sour at the time. But, after taking some months to get used to it, I do not mind it as much. I just wish there was some unviersal coding standard that everyone can agree upon because I like to keep my work in a consistent format.
  
## Closing Statement
  Good coding standards are important as they help an environment of programmers understand one another's codes, allowing them to collaberate, but they should never be a problem when implementing.
    
